---
title: "von"
date: 2018-01-23
menu: main
weight: 5
---

*Question: How do you alphabetize your name in bibliographies?*

Good question. I can only tell you what my personal rules are.

Many gory details below. But the simple gist is this: *my last name is "von Fintel" but it should be alphabetized under "F" (as if the "von" was silent).*

There are probably differences between German *von*, Dutch *van*, Belgian *van*, French *de* and whatever else there is, but I don't really know much about that. My tendency is to follow my rules for *von* and *van* and also for *de Swart*, but I'm glad there are not many French linguists with *de* or the like. My colleague Michel DeGraff here at MIT is easier to deal with since the *de* has become an obvious part of his last name.

So here are my rules:

-   The last name is *von Fintel*, definitely NOT *Fintel* (which sounds derogatory to me; it's what my teachers in high school called me when they wanted to make fun of me).
-   In a running text the v is small.
-   At the beginning of a sentence, it should probably be capitalized. As in "Von Fintel claims that ...". But I should say that it looks very strange to me to see the capital V. So, I tend to avoid starting a sentence that way at almost all costs. (For an interesting related discussion, see [Arnold Zwicky's post on such dilemmas](http://itre.cis.upenn.edu/~myl/languagelog/archives/004821.html "Language Log: e e cummings and his iPod: Faith vs. WF again").)
-   Alphabetization works this way: the name in a bibliography is "von Fintel, Kai", but it is listed under "F". As far as I know, the other *von* and *van* people prefer this as well.

## Sort order in bibliographies

I know that this is a problem when creating automatic bibliographies. Before I made the switch to LaTeX, I used Endnote, which definitely put the *von* and *van* authors under "v" and then once the bibliography was generated and inserted into the Word document, I had to move the entries by hand to their appropriate places. With LaTeX/BibTeX, there are in principle three ways of correctly alphabetizing *von*.

### Tricking BibTeX

As described in the *LaTeX Companion* (p. 404), you can force BibTeX to sort on the name without the *von*. The trick consists of two parts:

-   At the beginning of the .bib-file, write:

    `@preamble{"\newcommand{\SortNoop}[1]{}"}`

-   For each author with a *von* etc. in the name change their name to the following:

    `author = "{\SortNoop{Fintel}}von Fintel, Kai"`

What goes on here is that for LaTeX (which reads the .bbl-file generated by BibTeX), the `\SortNoop` command is defined to be vacuous, so the extra material is thrown away. But BibTeX sees the material and sorts on it.

### Generating a better bibstyle

In my mind, this is the best strategy: use Patric Daly's [custom-bib](http://www.ctan.org/tex-archive/macros/latex/contrib/custom-bib/) package to generate your own bibliography style. One of the settings that custom-bib lets you choose is whether BibTeX should sort on the *von* or not. For instructions on how to use custom-bib, read the documentation of the package.

### Hacking existing bibliography styles

In principle, it should be possible to slightly modify existing .bst-files (the bibliography style files for BibTeX) to change the treatment of *von* etc. But I haven't tried that. I did find [one hacker's description of what to do](http://groups.google.com/groups?selm=35A09596.167E@loria.fr) and [another ones](http://groups.google.com/groups?selm=3ABA33FC.B99DEDA3@informatik.hu-berlin.de) as well.

## References

Its probably not a bad idea to check the archives of the [comp.text.tex](http://groups.google.com/groups?q=comp.text.tex) usenet newsgroup for discussions of this issue. Look at the current results of a search for [bibtex von](http://groups.google.com/groups?q=bibtex+von&meta=group=comp.text.tex). Here are some threads with more or less useful information:

-   [BibTeX and sorting names with \`von prefixes](http://groups.google.com/groups?th=577f9b95a04a1359)
-   [capitalization of von-parts](http://groups.google.com/groups?th=ebc8d85da7b189d4)
