---
amazonS3_cache:
- a:7:{s:27:"//dx.doi.org/10.3765/sp.2.3";a:1:{s:9:"timestamp";i:1502661900;}s:27:"//dx.doi.org/10.3765/sp.1.1";a:1:{s:9:"timestamp";i:1502661900;}s:27:"//dx.doi.org/10.3765/sp.2.4";a:1:{s:9:"timestamp";i:1502661900;}s:27:"//dx.doi.org/10.3765/sp.2.2";a:1:{s:9:"timestamp";i:1502661900;}s:27:"//dx.doi.org/10.3765/sp.3.3";a:1:{s:9:"timestamp";i:1502661900;}s:27:"//dx.doi.org/10.3765/sp.3.4";a:1:{s:9:"timestamp";i:1502661900;}s:27:"//dx.doi.org/10.3765/sp.3.1";a:1:{s:9:"timestamp";i:1502661900;}}
author: Kai von Fintel
categories:
- Uncategorized
date: 2012-02-07T19:00:00Z
guid: http://52.15.252.238/?p=404
id: 404
tags:
- open access
- publishing
- S&amp;P
title: Citation impact 2008-2010
url: /citation-impact-2008-2010/
---

[Reposted from [S&P Editors Blog](http://blog.semprag.org)]

<p>We were curious to see how <a href="http://semprag.org">S&amp;P</a> is doing as far as the impact of published articles on the field is concerned. Below we have compiled a list of all articles published in the four main semantics journals (Linguistics &amp; Philosophy, Natural Language Semantics, Journal of Semantics, Semantics &amp; Pragmatics) since 2008 (the year of S&amp;P&#8217;s first published article) that have received 10 citations or more according to Google Scholar. There are not yet any articles published in 2011 on that list. So, let&#8217;s focus on the cohort of articles published between 2008 and 2010. The four journals combined published 141 main research articles in that time frame. 54 of those (= 38%) have received 10 or more citations. S&amp;P published fewer articles than the other three journals (11 in fact: 1 in 2008, 3 in 2009, 7 in 2010), since we&#8217;re still ramping up the quantity of publications. But S&amp;P already has an outsized share of the top impact articles: we have 5 articles in the Top 20, and an overall rate of 64% of our articles have already received 10 or more citations.</p>

<p>By all accounts then, S&amp;P&#8217;s first three years were a resounding success quality-wise. Now, we&#8217;ll be working on increasing our quantitive share of the semantics market while not decreasing our quality share. You can help: submit your best work to S&amp;P. You will receive top-notch and fast peer-reviewing and editorial feedback and fast time-to-print. Plus, your work will be openly accessible to anyone with access to an internet connection, rather than being locked behind prohibitive subscription barriers.</p>

<p>[There are other things to notice, such as the domination in the upper range of articles by NLS, distancing the two older journals JoS and, especially, L&amp;P.]</p>

<ol>
<li style="color:royalblue">[54 citations] Kehler, Kertz, Rohde et al. - JoS 2008. Coherence and coreference revisited</li>
<li style="color:slategray">[53 citations] Hackl - NLS 2009. On the grammar and processing of proportional quantifiers: most versus more than half</li>
<li style="color:slategray">[48 citations] Chemla - NLS 2009. Presuppositions of quantified sentences: experimental data</li>
<li style="color:#933"><b><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.3765/sp.2.3">[42 citations] Schlenker - S&amp;P 2009. Local contexts</a></b></li>
<li style="color:royalblue">[37 citations] Rothstein - JoS 2010. Counting and the mass/count distinction</li>
<li style="color:slategray">[32 citations] Wilhelm - NLS 2008. Bare nouns and number in Dëne Sųłiné</li>
<li style="color:#933"><b><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.3765/sp.1.1">[31 citations] Barker, Shan - S&amp;P 2008. Donkey anaphora is in-scope binding</a></b></li>
<li style="color:#933"><b><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.3765/sp.2.4">[28 citations] Geurts, Pouscoulous - S&amp;P 2009. Embedded implicatures</a></b></li>
<li style="color:royalblue">[28 citations] Breheny - JoS 2008. A new look at the semantics and pragmatics of numerically quantified noun phrases</li>
<li style="color:slategray">[27 citations] von Fintel, Gillies - NLS 2010. Must... stay... strong!</li>
<li style="color:slategray">[27 citations] Rullmann, Matthewson et al. - NLS 2008. Modals as distributive indefinites</li>
<li style="color:slategray">[27 citations] Magri - NLS 2009. A theory of individual-level predicates based on blind mandatory scalar implicatures</li>
<li style="color:seagreen">[24 citations] Elbourne - L&amp;P 2008. Demonstratives as individual concepts</li>
<li style="color:#933"><b><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.3765/sp.2.2">[22 citations] Chemla - S&amp;P 2009. Universal implicatures and free choice effects: Experimental data</a></b></li>
<li style="color:seagreen">[21 citations] Matushansky - L&amp;P 2008. On the linguistic complexity of proper names</li>
<li style="color:royalblue">[21 citations] Farkas, Bruce - JoS 2010. On reacting to assertions and polar questions</li>
<li style="color:slategray">[21 citations] Alonso-Ovalle, Menendez-Benito - NLS 2010. Modal indefinites</li>
<li style="color:seagreen">[21 citations] Bale - L&amp;P 2008. A universal scale of comparison</li>
<li style="color:#933"><b><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.3765/sp.3.3">[20 citations] Nouwen - S&amp;P 2010. Two kinds of modified numerals</a></b></li>
<li style="color:seagreen">[20 citations] Singh - L&amp;P 2008. On the interpretation of disjunction: Asymmetric, incremental, and eager for inconsistency</li>
<li style="color:slategray">[19 citations] Kissine - NLS 2008. Why will is not a modal</li>
<li style="color:slategray">[18 citations] Gualmini, Hulsey, Hacquard et al. - NLS 2008. The Question–Answer Requirement for scope assignment</li>
<li style="color:seagreen">[18 citations] Harris et al. - L&amp;P 2009. Perspective-shifting with appositives and expressives</li>
<li style="color:royalblue">[17 citations] Abusch - JoS 2010. Presupposition triggering from alternatives</li>
<li style="color:royalblue">[17 citations] Ippolito - JoS 2008. On the meaning of only</li>
<li style="color:seagreen">[17 citations] Hacquard - L&amp;P 2009. On the interaction of aspect and modal auxiliaries</li>
<li style="color:slategray">[17 citations] Morzycki - NLS 2009. Degree modification of gradable nouns: size adjectives and adnominal degree morphemes</li>
<li style="color:royalblue">[17 citations] Lascarides et al. - JoS 2009. Agreement, disputes and commitments in dialogue</li>
<li style="color:royalblue">[16 citations] Bale et al. - JoS 2009. The interpretation of functional heads: Using comparatives to explore the mass/count distinction</li>
<li style="color:#933"><b><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.3765/sp.3.4">[16 citations] Gillies - S&amp;P 2010. Iffiness</a></b></li>
<li style="color:seagreen">[16 citations] Brasoveanu - L&amp;P 2008. Donkey pluralities: plural information states versus non-atomic individuals</li>
<li style="color:seagreen">[16 citations] Moltmann - L&amp;P 2009. Degree structure as trope structure: a trope-based analysis of positive and comparative adjectives</li>
<li style="color:seagreen">[15 citations] Villalta - L&amp;P 2008. Mood and gradability: an investigation of the subjunctive mood in Spanish</li>
<li style="color:royalblue">[15 citations] Syrett, Kennedy et al. - JoS 2010. Meaning and context in children's understanding of gradable adjectives</li>
<li style="color:royalblue">[15 citations] Lascarides et al. - JoS 2009. A formal semantic analysis of gesture</li>
<li style="color:seagreen">[14 citations] Arregui - L&amp;P 2009. On similarity in counterfactuals</li>
<li style="color:royalblue">[14 citations] Chemla - JoS 2008. An epistemic step for anti-presuppositions</li>
<li style="color:seagreen">[13 citations] Abbott - L&amp;P 2008. Presuppositions and common ground</li>
<li style="color:slategray">[13 citations] Hacquard - NLS 2010. On the event relativity of modal auxiliaries</li>
<li style="color:seagreen">[13 citations] Chaves - L&amp;P 2008. Linearization-based word-part ellipsis</li>
<li style="color:slategray">[13 citations] Moltmann - NLS 2008. Intensional verbs and their intentional objects</li>
<li style="color:royalblue">[12 citations] Koenig, Mauner, Bienvenue et al. -  JoS 2008. What with? The anatomy of a (proto)-role</li>
<li style="color:seagreen">[12 citations] Nicolas - L&amp;P 2008. Mass nouns and plural logic</li>
<li style="color:seagreen">[12 citations] Dekker - L&amp;P 2008. A multi-dimensional treatment of quantification in extraordinary English</li>
<li style="color:slategray">[11 citations] Nouwen - NLS 2008. Upper-bounded no more: the exhaustive interpretation of non-strict comparison</li>
<li style="color:seagreen">[11 citations] Sharvit - L&amp;P 2008. The puzzle of free indirect discourse</li>
<li style="color:royalblue">[11 citations] Gualmini et al. - JoS 2009. Solving learnability problems in the acquisition of semantics</li>
<li style="color:royalblue">[11 citations] Brasoveanu - JoS 2010. Decomposing modal quantification</li>
<li style="color:royalblue">[11 citations] Davis - JoS 2009. Decisions, dynamics and the Japanese particle yo</li>
<li style="color:slategray">[11 citations] Lin - NLS 2009. Chinese comparatives and their implicational parameters</li>
<li style="color:slategray">[10 citations] Martí - NLS 2008. The semantics of plural indefinite noun phrases in Spanish and Portuguese</li>
<li style="color:#933"><b><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.3765/sp.3.1">[10 citations] Beck - S&amp;P 2010. Quantifiers in than-clauses</a></b></li>
<li style="color:seagreen">[10 citations] Zweig - L&amp;P 2009. Number-neutral bare plurals and the multiplicity implicature</li>
<li style="color:seagreen">[10 citations] Francez - L&amp;P 2009. Existentials, predication, and modification</li>
</ol>

<p>[NB: data from February 5, 2012] </p>

<p>Total papers published by the four journals 2008&#8211;2010: 141<br/>
54 have received 10 citations or more (54/141 = 38%)</p>

<p>Share of the Top 54:</p>

<p>JoS: 15 papers (of 41 published 2008&#8211;2010) = 15/41 = 37%<br/>
L&amp;P: 17 papers (of 55 published 2008&#8211;2010) = 17/55 = 31%<br/>
NLS: 15 papers (of 34 published 2008&#8211;2010) = 15/34 = 44%<br/>
S&amp;P: 7 papers (of 11 published 2008&#8211;2010) = 7/11 = 64%</p>
